[WIP - do not merge] Content section for writing guidelines in EUI (#7710)
elastic/eui: website/docs/03_content/style.mdx

---
slug: style
title: Writing style
sidebar_position: 10
---

## General style recommendations

### Spelling 
Use **American English** by default. 

### Minimalism

- Be straight to the point.
- You don't need to explain everything at once. Make information discovery progress at the same pace as the user.
- Help text and descriptions are optional. If it doesn't add value other than decoration, omit it. Make every word play a role and earn its place.
- Don't sacrifice clarity for the sake of minimalism.

### Conversational voice 

> - Use contractions
> - Prefer active voice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use contractions.
- Prefer active voice.
```

- Converse directly with the user using "you" and "your".

> - Use "We" when talking about actions Elastic takes for users. But don't overdo it, we respect the user and explain things transparently. Let's not use "let's".

Reviewer 2: The last sentence seems a bit out of place. Should it be on a separate line?

Author: ```suggestion
- Use "We" when talking about actions Elastic takes for users. But don't overdo it, we respect the user and explain things transparently. 
- Let's not use "let's".
```

- Our audience is global. Avoid complex words and phrasal verbs such as "jump in".

> - Name things. Avoid verbs alone without a noun, for example in buttons. Also avoid "this" alone, and attach a noun to it: "this setting", "this plan".

Reviewer 2: Tweaked the first sentence because it read a little awkward to me.

```suggestion
- When naming things, such as buttons, follow verbs with a noun. Also, avoid using "this" alone. Attach a noun to it, for example: "this setting" or "this plan"
```

Author: I think you didn't read this as I originally intended. I'm not talking about naming UI elements like buttons, but rather saying that the text inside buttons or action menus should most of the time be a "verb + noun" instead of just a verb. Like "Save dashboard" instead of "Save"

Author: ```suggestion
- Avoid using verbs alone without a noun in buttons and action menus to add clarity. For example, prefer "Save dashboard" over "Save".
- Avoid using "this" alone, and instead attach a noun to it, like "this setting" or "this plan".
```

> > It can happen that we give the user full ownership of an action. In that case, using "I" and "my" is allowed. For example, for a legal agreement checkbox "I agree to follow the terms of service".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Sometimes, we give the user full ownership of an action. In that case, it's acceptable to use "I" and "my". For example, for a legal agreement checkbox "I agree to follow the terms of service".
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Should the following examples be a part of this list, or can they be moved to their own lines? I was also wondering whether there should be some sort of lead-in to the examples. For example:

Here are a couple of examples of the guidelines being applied:

Author: ```suggestion

For example:

```

> - **Do:** We noticed that you don't have any data in your cluster. Try our sample data and dashboards or bring your own data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Do:** We noticed that you don't have any data in your cluster. Try our sample data and dashboards or bring your own data.
```

> - **Don't:** Let's create a visualization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Don't:** Let's create a visualization.
```

### Adverbs

Use adverbs sparingly. If you can omit a word, do it.

## Case

Use **sentence case** by default. This goes for navigation menus, titles and headers, buttons, and so on. 

- **Do:** Developer tools. Data streams. Index templates. Save session. 

> - **Don't:** Developer Tools. Delete Deployment? Run Search.

Author: Yes I'm hoping to replace these examples with a more visual formatting at some point, but trying to keep them straight to the point until then. I want to keep it small as well, a bit like what they do in the Google developer docs. Maybe one example would suffice?

The only exceptions are proper nouns and [branded terms](https://brand.elastic.co/302f66895/p/194a3b-writing-style-guide/t/159934) like solution and application names. 

- **Do:** Elastic Observability. Go to the Discover app. Upgrade to Platinium.

> - **Don't:** Select gold subscription. Open the synthetics app.

Reviewer 3: Same here with examples, maybe a this, not that approach so it's easier to see the differences.

Elastic Observability **not** elastic observability
Gold subscription **not** gold subscription.

> Note that some names don't be capitalized when they're used as common names. For example, **Elastic Cloud Serverless** and **our serverless architecture** are both correct.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that some names don't need to be capitalized when they're used as common names. For example, **Elastic Cloud Serverless** and **our serverless architecture** are both correct.
```

## Punctuation

### Ellipsis

Reserve ellipsis only for indicating truncated text or situations that require the user to wait.

- **Do:** Page loading...
- **Don't:** Elastic offers many capabilities such as dashboards, machine learning, synthetics monitoring...

### Exclamation mark

> Don't use exclamation marks unless you are sharing an exciting news. And if you are, only use one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Avoid exclamation marks in most cases. A single exclamation mark when sharing exciting news may be appropriate. 
```

### Oxford comma

Use the Oxford comma before the final item in a list.

- **Do:** Elastic's solutions are Elasticsearch, Observability, and Security
- **Don't:** Elastic's solutions are Elasticsearch, Observability and Security

### Periods (full stops)

> Don't use periods in headers, titles, placeholders, and navigation labels. Use them on description text, messages, and notifications. Don't use them in a bulleted list unless the list item is a complete sentence.

Reviewer 2: We should only be using periods if the following items are complete sentences, right? 

* description text
* messages
* notifications

If so, we should state it in the guidelines. I've seen one too many examples of incomplete sentences with periods at the end in tooltips. 😅

- **Do:** Developer tools

> - **Don't:** Developer tools.

Reviewer: Agree, we can delete it.

> - **Do:** Developer tools
> - **Don't:** Developer tools.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Elastic's voice

> The **voice** represents the personality of the product and its main traits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Voice** represents the personality we want to convey through the UI copy in our products.
```
I wonder if maybe we want to mention the UI copy in this sentence? Feel free to ignore if it doesn't make sense.

Reviewer 2: 1+ to your revision. From my perspective, the voice represents the personality of the company, and UI copy is a vehicle for delivering that personality.

- Help text and descriptions are optional. If it doesn't add value other than decoration, omit it. Make every word play a role and earn its place.
- Don't sacrifice clarity for the sake of minimalism.

### Conversational voice 

- Use contractions.
- Prefer active voice.
- Converse directly with the user using "you" and "your".
- Use "We" when talking about actions Elastic takes for users. But don't overdo it, we respect the user and explain things transparently. 
- Let's not use "let's".
- Our audience is global. Avoid complex words and phrasal verbs such as "jump in".
- Avoid using verbs alone without a noun in buttons and action menus to add clarity. For example, prefer "Save dashboard" over "Save".
- Avoid using "this" alone, and instead attach a noun to it, like "this setting" or "this plan".

> Sometimes, we give the user full ownership of an action. In that case, it's acceptable to use "I" and "my". For example, for a legal agreement checkbox "I agree to follow the terms of service".

For example:

- **Do:** We noticed that you don't have any data in your cluster. Try our sample data and dashboards or bring your own data.
- **Don't:** Let's create a visualization.

> 

Author: The more I read this section, the more I think we could simply bake those principles in the Voice section. Many of those items describe the same thing, just with different words. wdyt?
